
Assembling the rio-rgb-LED buffer board


Print out the assembly drawing, and use it for reference to parts
and orientation.
Especially because:
      pin 1 of U1 is not marked at all on the board silkscreen
      there's a silkscreen "1" near the WS2812 RGB-LED that is confusingly
      	      not near the actual pin 1.


locate and unpack three  1 uF 50v 0805-size surface mount capacitors

using a tiny soldering iron tip, apply a dab of solder to one pad only of each of the C1, C2, and C3 locations

place a 1 uF, 50v 0805 capacitor at each of C1, C2, and C3
for each one:
    reheat the pad that already has solder while using tweezers to push the
    component into the perfect location

When all three have one end soldered, to hold the part in place, go
back and solder the other end.  Reheat the first end to touch it up.
Use only a tiny bit of solder if necessary.

--

Repeat for C4, 47uF 10v, 1206
  - apply solder to one pad only
  - put the parts in place
  - reheat the already-applied solder while holding the part in place.  adjust as needed to get the part into the perfect position.
  - go back and solder the other end.  Touch

--

Repeat for the three 100 ohm 0805 resistors at R1, R2, and R3
 - apply solder to one pad only
 - place parts
 - reheat the solder to anchor the part in place
 
--

Locate D2, the reverse-polarity protection diode.  Notice that it has
one lead that is larger than the other, matching the lands pads on the
board.	 
Same procedure:
     - Apply solder to one pad only
     - put the part in place
     - reheat that pad, positioning the part
     - solder the other end.

When soldering the larger pad, keep the iron there and apply enough
solder that it gets sucked underneat the device to connect the whole
device lead and board pad.


Locate U1, the voltage regulator in the 8-pin SOIC package.  Check the
orientation.  Pin 1, marked with a small dimple, goes towards C3.  Its
marked with a diagonal line on the assembly drawing.

Same soldering procedure:
     - Apply solder to one pad only
     - put the part in place
     - reheat that pad, positioning the part perfectly so that all 7 other
       leads are in perfect position over their respective pads.
     - TRIPLE-CHECK the position and orientation of the part.
 After this step, it will be very hard to reposition the part!!
      - solder the 7 other leads.

--

The voltage regulator part of the circuit can be tested at this point,
Worth doing, even though its a little tricky to hold the input wires
and voltmeter probes all in place.  I did this on the first board to
be assembled.

--

Locate D1, the WS2812B RGB "smart" LED.
Using the assembly drawing only, identify where pin 1 of the LED goes.
Pin 1 on the package is marked by a diagonal shape in the corner of the white
plastic package.

Using a tiny soldering iron tip, apply a dab of solder to one pad
only.  Position the WS2812B in the right place.  Hint: the triangle
goes towards C4.

reheat the pad with the solder to anchor the part in place, while
positioning it perfectly so the other three pads line up well.

Check orientation of pin 1 (triangle) again.

solder the other three pads.
reheat the first pad to clean it up, adding a tiny bit of solder if needed.

--

Surface mount parts should all be finished!

Incremental final testing:

install J1, data input
-  put the J1 connector on the BACK side of the board.
  solder one pin only.
  Holding the connector and board with one hand, finger on the connector,
  reheat that one pin's solder joint.  reposition the connector so it is perfectly flat to the surface of the board, and is perfectly perpendicular to the board
  surface.
  solder the other pins

--

now apply rgb-led data stream along with +5v or +6v to J1 with a
roborio or a short cable and an ardino.

--

Solder in J2..J4 output connectors.

We need to find a way to anchor them down a little better:  the plastic
mounting pins fit nicely while soldering, but could pull out.
Maybe melting them a bit with a low-temperature soldering iron
would be enough.  Or maybe a bit of glue.  careful not to get glue where it
doesn't belong.

Solder in J5, power input wago lever-lock connector.  orange levers for wires
go towards the board edge.

---

test whe whole thing on RoboRIO or on bench with arduino data source

